
- [ITSM Library and Best Practices](#itsm-library-and-best-practices)
  - [**ITIL \& ITSM**](#itil--itsm)
  - [**How do ITIL and ITSM differ?**](#how-do-itil-and-itsm-differ)
  - [**Read More About ITIL \& ITIL4**](#read-more-about-itil--itil4)

# ITSM Library and Best Practices

## **ITIL & ITSM**

> **ITIL** is the acronym for *Information Technology Infrastructure Library*.

A framework that helps IT teams organize and think about their workflows, ITIL is a widely accepted 'best standard' for how IT teams can aligning IT services with the needs of the business.

The 'service area' categories we just introduced, like Asset Management or Service Request Management are terms that have been standardized in the industry by ITIL.

## **How do ITIL and ITSM differ?**

|`ITIL`|`ITSM`|
|:----| :----|
|ITIL provides practical and proven guidance for establishing a service management system. It provides the framework, practices, and a common glossary of terms for businesses using IT enabled services.|ITSM deals with implementing, managing, and delivering IT services to meet the needs of an organization. It ensures that the appropriate combination of people, practices, processes, and products (tools and technology) are in place to provide value.|

> ## **Note**

1. ITSM is the practice of delivering IT services to customers, while ITIL is the framework that can be used to implement ITSM.
2. Many IT frameworks are only focused on specific areas like security, quality control, or service management.
3. ITIL guides organizations and individuals on using IT as a tool to facilitate business change, transformation and growth. ITIL advocates that IT and digital services are aligned to the needs of the business and support its core objectives and goals.
4. ITIL is an evolving framework. In previous versions, ITIL was interpreted by some practitioners as being overly-prescriptive with heavy and burdensome requirements associated with old ways of working.
5. The latest version, ITIL 4 presents a more holistic, customer-centric frame of reference, and encourages a more flexible approach to building an effective IT organization.

> ## Highlights of ITIL 4 that align with Atlassian

1. Centers on `“Focus on value”` as a core principle for IT teams.
2. Provides a `flexible and value-centric` approach.
3. Guiding principles embrace `collaboration, simplicity, and iteration`.
4. Shifts from processes to `practices`.
5. Integrates best practices from `Agile`, `DevOps`, and `Lean`.

## **Read More About ITIL & ITIL4**

1. [ITIL 4 whitepaper](https://pages.eml.atlassian.com/rs/594-ATC-127/images/Atlassian_Axelos_ITIL4_Guide.pdf)
2. [What ITIL 4 means for you and your team](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/technology/what-the-new-itil-4-means-for-you-and-your-team)